***ANSWER ALL QUESTIONS BELOW***

What is a programming language?
Answer:A programming language is a computer language programmers use to develop software programs,
 scripts, or other sets of instructions for computers to execute.

What is a JDK composed of? Define each components?
Answer: Java Developer Kit contains tools which a Java developer needed to develop the Java programs,
       and JRE to run the program.its components are:
       Java Archive  tool combines multiple Java files/ applets into a single archive.
       Java Compiler reads all the class information, interfaces and the other
       codes written in Java programming language and compiles them into byte code.
       Java Disassembler :Java Disassembler disassembles one or more classes which is passed.
       Java Debugger:is a command-line debugger for Java classes it helps us in debugging our Java code.

What is an IDE?
Answer:A Java IDE is an integrated development environment for programming in Java.

What are some of the most popular Java IDEs available in the market?
Answer:eclipse, NetBeans,BlueJ,JDeveloper,IntelliJ IDEA,Greenfoot...

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Answer: computer programs are simply lists of instructions to be carried out by the six different logical units of a computer:
        Input Unit receives data from the input devices such as the keyboard,
        mouse and any other peripherals
        Memory Unit the primary memory unit (Random Access Memory(RAM)) provides fast access
        storage of computer programs, data from the input devices and data to be sent to the output devices.
        Arithmetic and Logic Unit (ALU) performs the arithmetic calculations on data in memory,
         such as addition, subtraction, multiplication, division and comparison.
        Central Processing Unit (CPU) manages the other units by sending messages to the
        input unit to read data into the memory unit, informs the ALU which data to operate on, etc.
        Storage Unit stores and reads data and programs in long-term storage (e.g. harddisk drive) to be
        used at a later time.
        Output Unit sends information from the computer to make it available outside of the computer,
         e.g. printer, network device etc.

What is a class?
Answer: a class is blueprint for creating objects.

What is an object?
Answer:object is an instance of a class

What is the entry point of an application?
Answer:The main method

Why is the main() static?
Answer:In Java main() method is always static, so that the compiler can call it without the creation of an object or before the creation of an object of the class.


Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Answer:object

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Answer:The difference between path and classpath is that path is an environment variable
used to refer the location of Java executable files while classpath is an environment variable
used to refer the location of the class files.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Answer: abstract class achieves partial abstraction (0 to 100%)
whereas interface achieves fully abstraction (100%).

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class? If yes or no, how would you do it?
Answer:No, we can't create an object of an abstract class. But we can create a reference variable
of an abstract class. The reference variable is used to refer to the objects of derived classes
 (subclasses of abstract class) which means we extend / implement the Abstract class / interface in a new class,and
 create the object of this new class and then use this object as per our need.

What is Access Modifier?
Answer:is keyword in object-oriented languages that set the accessibility of classes, methods.

What is OOP? Define each OOP concept.
Answer:Object-oriented programming combines a group of variables (properties) and functions (methods) into
a unit called an "object."  Here are the four basic theories and what they entail:

  Encapsulation  is to make sure that "sensitive" data is hidden from users
  Abstraction is like an extension of encapsulation because it hides certain
  properties and methods from the outside code to make the interface of the objects simpler
  Inheritance  is to inherit attributes and methods
  Polymorphism  is a concept by which we can perform a single action in different ways.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Answer:A package in Java is used to group related classes.user defined package,
What is an API? List some API's that you have used so far.
Answer:Java Application Programming Interface (API) is the area of Java development kit (JDK).
An API includes classes, interfaces,packages and also their methods, fields, and constructors.

Does java support multiple inheritance? Why or why not?
Answer:Java does not support multiple inheritance. This means that a class cannot extend more than one class

What is method overloading and when does it happen?
Answer:Overloading is changing the method’s functionality by passing different parameters - number,
 type, order; compile time polymorphism.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle them.
Answer:an exception in java  is an event that disrupts the normal flow of the program.
and we can use  try-catch methods to handle them.

What is static keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer:This means that only one instance of that static member is created which is shared
across all instances of the class.Static is used for a constant variable or a method that
is same for every instance of a class.We use it by declare in a static keyword.

What is final keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer:final is a non-access modifier applicable only to a variable, a method or a class,we use it when we want to
declare the variable or method as final or constant and can't be changed.We use it by declaring the word final.

Explain the difference between final, finally and finalize?
Answer:The basic difference between final, finally, and finalize is that final is an access modifier,
 finally is a block and finalize is a method of an object class.

What is a constructor?
Answer:A constructor in Java is a special method that is used to initialize objects.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Answer:A class can have multiple constructors with different types of arguments and
 different number of arguments.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Answer: It calls a default constructor.

What is "this" keyword in Java? When would we use it?
Answer:Keyword "this" is a reference variable in Java that refers to the current object.

What is "super" keyword in Java? What are some scenarios we would use it?
Answer:The "super" keyword in java is a reference variable that is used to refer parent class objects.

What does JVM stand for?
Answer:it stands for Java virtual Machine.

Is JVM platform independent?
Answer:The JVM is not platform independent.

What version of Java are you using?
Answer:JDK  11

What does JAR stand for?
Answer:JAR stands for "Java ARChive". A JAR file is basically a zip-file which contains a couple of
 class files and a text file containing some meta information

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Answer:JVM is the Java Virtual Machine – it  runs Java ByteCode. The Java Development Kit
(JDK) is a software development environment used for developing Java applications and applets
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Answer:JRE – Java Runtime Environment is an installation package which provides
 environment to only run(not develop) the java program onto our machine
 JVM – Java Virtual machine is a very important part of both JDK and JRE because
 it is contained or inbuilt in both.

Explain the difference between compile-time and run-time?
Answer:compile time is that time when the code development is in progress and
the developer tries to compile the code written to convert that into a code which a machine can interpret.

What is heap?
Answer:A heap is a special data structure in Java

How does Java manage its memory?

Answer:In Java, memory management is the process of allocation and de-allocation of objects,
 called Memory management. Java does memory management automatically. Java uses an automatic
 memory management system called a garbage collector.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Answer:Strings are immutable which  means a constant and cannot be changed once created
while StringBuffer and StringBuilder are mutable.

What is Singleton class?
Answer:a singleton class is a class that can only have one object at a time.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Answer:Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into
a byte stream. Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream is
used to recreate the actual Java object in memory.

Explain the difference between While and Do..While loops?
Answer:

What is Enum?
Answer:

What is Iterator?
Answer:

Which one will take more memory: an int or Integer? Why?
Answer:

Why are Strings considered to be immutable in Java?
Answer:

What is constructor chaining in Java?
Answer:

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Answer:

What does JIT stands for?
Answer:

Explain the process of Java garbage collection?
Answer:

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Answer:

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Answer:

What is reflection in Java and why is it useful?
Answer:

What is multithreading in Java?
Answer:

What is synchronization in Java?
Answer:

What is a Framework?
Answer:

What are the testing Frameworks available in Java?
Answer:

What are jUnit and testNG?
Answer:

What are the dependencies for this project?
Answer:

What is dependency injection in Java?
Answer:

Explain what static binding and dynamic binding is?
Answer: