Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
Java programmers use data structures to store and organize data,
and we use algorithms to manipulate the data in those structures.


What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
Insertion − Add a new data item in the data structure .
Deletion − Delete an existing data item from the data structure.
Traversal − Access each data item exactly once so that it can be processed.
Searching − Find out the location of the data item if it exists in the data structure
Sorting − Arranging the data items in some order.


List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
Compiler Design
Operating System
Database Management System
Statistical analysis package
Numerical Analysis
Graphics
Artificial Intelligence
Simulation

what is an Array?
An array is a container object that holds a fixed number of values of a single type.

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
Array is a fixed length data structure whereas ArrayList is a variable length Collection class.
We cannot change length of array once created in Java but ArrayList can be changed.

what is LinkedList?
The LinkedList class is a collection which can contain many objects of the same type, just like the ArrayList.

How is an Array different from Linked List?
An array is a collection of elements of a similar data type whereas Linked List is an ordered collection of elements
of the same type in which each element is connected to the next using pointers

what is queue?
Java Queue is an interface available in java. util package and extends java.

what is stack?
A Stack is a Last In First Out (LIFO) data structure. It supports two basic operations called push and pop.

what is FIFO and LIFO?
FIFO is an abbreviation for first in, first out. It is a method for handling data structures where the first
element is processed first and the newest element is processed last.
LIFO is an abbreviation for last in, first out. It is a method for handling data structures where the first element
is processed last and the last element is processed first.

what is the order of complexity?
O(N), 0(N^2), O(N^3), O(N*log(N))etc.

what is the best case to search an element from an array?

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?

what is tree in data structure?
A Tree is a non-linear data structure where data objects are organized in terms of hierarchical relationship

what is graph in data structure?
A graph is a data structure for storing connected data like a network of people on a social media platform.

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
HashMap isn't synchronized and it doesn't allow any null key or value
HashTable is synchronized which allows multiple null value

What are the major data structures used in the following areas :
RDBMS - Array
Network data model - Grapy
Hierarchical data model - Trees

How HashMap works in java?
It allows to store object and retrieve it when provided with key and value

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
It is a runtime exception. It is thrown to indicate that we are trying to access array element with an illegal index.
Illegal index is when index is either negative or greater than or equal to the size of the array

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
Manually
Arrays.copyOf()
System.arraycopy()
Object.clone()

What is difference between an array and a linked list?
An array is a collection of elements of a similar data type.
Linked List is an ordered collection of elements of the same type in which each element
is connected to the next using pointers.

What is DFS and BFS?
Depth-first search (DFS) is a traversal algorithm used for both Tree and Graph data structures.
The basic approach of the Breadth-First Search (BFS) algorithm is to search for a node into a tree or
graph structure by exploring neighbors before children.

What is Recursion?
Recursion is the technique of making a function call itself.

What are linear and non linear data Structures?
In linear data structure, data elements are sequentially connected and each element is traversable through a single run.
In non-linear data structure, data elements are hierarchically connected and are present at various levels.

What is Big-(O)-notation?
Big O Notation is a relative representation of an algorithm's complexity.

Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?
Selection Sort, bubble sort, insertion sort, heap sort, quick sort, merge sort, bucket sort, radix sort

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.